---
layout: post
link: 	"https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-59608-2_23"
title:  "A secure and fast dispersal storage scheme based on the learning with errors problem"
date:   2016-06-15 00:00:00
authors: L. Yang, F. Fang, X. Lu, W. T. Zhu, Q. Wang, <strong>S. Yan</strong>, and S. Pan
pub: 12th EAI International Conference on Security and Privacy in Communication Networks (SecureComm'16)
page: 
categories: pub
---

<p><strong>Abstract:</strong> Data confidentiality and availability are of primary concern in data storage. Dispersal storage schemes achieve these two security 
properties by transforming the data into multiple codewords and dispersing them across multiple storage servers. Existing schemes achieve 
confidentiality and availability by various cryptographic and coding algorithms, but only under the assumption that an adversary cannot 
obtain more than a certain number of codewords. Meanwhile existing schemes are designed for storing archives. In this paper, 
we propose a novel dispersal storage scheme based on the learning with errors problem, known as storage with errors (SWE). 
SWE can resist even more powerful adversaries (e.g., one who obtains all codewords). Besides, SWE favorably supports dynamic data 
operations that are both efficient and secure, which is more practical for cloud storage. Furthermore, SWE achieves security at 
relatively low computational overhead, but the same storage cost compared with the state of the art. We also develop a prototype 
to validate and evaluate SWE. Analysis and experiments show that with proper configurations, SWE outperforms existing schemes in 
encoding/decoding speed.</p>

<strong>Key Words:</strong>
<p>Dispersal storage; Data confidentiality; Data availability; Dynamic data operations; The learning with errors problem</p>