---
layout: post
title:  "Social bots for online public health interventions"
link:  https://arxiv.org/abs/1804.07886
file:  
date:   2018-08-26 17:07:19
authors: A. Deb, A. Majmundar, S. Seo, A. Matsui, R. Tandon, <strong>S. Yan</strong>, J. Allem, and E. Ferrara
pub: 2018 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining (ASONAM'18)
page: 
categories: pub
---
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong> According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, 
in the United States hundreds of thousands initiate smoking each year, and millions live with 
smoking-related dis- eases. Many tobacco users discuss their habits and preferences 
on social media. This work conceptualizes a framework for targeted health interventions 
to inform tobacco users about the consequences of tobacco use. We designed a Twitter bot 
named Notobot (short for No-Tobacco Bot) that leverages machine learning to identify users 
posting pro-tobacco tweets and select individualized interventions to address their 
interest in tobacco use. We searched the Twitter feed for tobacco-related keywords and 
phrases, and trained a convolutional neural network using over 4,000 tweets dichotomously 
manually labeled as either pro- tobacco or not pro-tobacco. This model achieves a 90% 
recall rate on the training set and 74% on test data. Users posting pro- tobacco tweets 
are matched with former smokers with similar interests who posted anti-tobacco tweets. 
Algorithmic matching, based on the power of peer influence, allows for the systematic 
delivery of personalized interventions based on real anti-tobacco tweets from former 
smokers. Experimental evaluation suggests that our system would perform well if deployed. 
This research offers opportunities for public health researchers to increase health 
awareness at scale. Future work entails deploying the fully operational Notobot system 
in a controlled experiment within a public health campaign.</p>
