---
layout: post
title:  "What Does Perception Bias on Social Networks Tell Us About Friend Count Satisfaction?"
link:  "https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3485447.3511931"
file:  
date:  2022-04-29 17:07:19
authors: <strong>S. Yan</strong>, K.M. Altenburger, Y.-C. Wang, and J. Cheng
pub: The ACM Web Conference 2022 (WWW'22)
page: 
categories: pub
---
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong> Social network platforms have enabled large-scale measurement of user-to-user networks such as friendships. Less studied is user sentiment about their networks, such as a user’s satisfaction with their number of friends. We surveyed over 85,000 Facebook users about how satisfied they were with their number of friends on Facebook, connecting these responses to their on-platform activity. As suggested in prior work, we’d expect users who are not satisfied with their friend count to have a higher probability of experiencing the friendship paradox: “your friends have more friends than you”. However in our sample, among users with more than  3,500 friends, no user experiences the friendship paradox. Instead, we still observe that those users with more friends would prefer to have even more friends. The friendship paradox also contributes to local perception bias, defined as the difference between the average number of friends among a user’s friends and the average friend count in the population. Users with a positive perception bias – their friends have more friends than others – are less satisfied with their friend count. We then introduce a weighted perception bias metric that considers the fact that different friends have different effects on an individual’s perception. We find this new weighted perception bias better distinguishes friend count satisfaction outcomes for users with high friend count when compared to the original perception bias metric. We conclude with modeling the behavior interactions via a machine learning model, demonstrating the heterogeneity in the interactions across users with different perception biases. Altogether, these findings offer more insights on users’ friend count satisfaction, which may provide guidelines to improve the user experience and promote healthy interactions.
